-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture we are going to create
the EKS cluster now.
So let's go into zero one zero to create EKS cluster,
and then node groups.
So when we go to the step zero one here,
step 00 we just now completed,
which is nothing but understanding about EKS core objects,
control plane, worker nodes,
and then far get profiles and then BPC in detail.
So now we are going to go into step zero one
which is nothing but create EKS cluster, using eksctl.
So one important thing here we need to understand is
like it'll take 15 to 20 minutes to
create the cluster control plane.
And what is this command?
So using eksctl create cluster,
we are going to create the cluster and its name
is going to be EKS demo one.
And the region we
are going to create this cluster is in US east one.
And my EKS cluster should be presenting US east one A
and then one B availability zone.
So I'm restricting my cluster at one A and then one B.
So if you don't give this zones then it is going to
automatically select the zones.
And if it selects one D
or some other zones, most of the time we get error
about the availability of workloads present there.
Means like availability
of servers and all those things.
So because of that I specifically say one A
and then one B here.
In addition to that.
So without node group, which means like
if you don't give this additional parameter
with eksctl create cluster itself
it is going to automatically create the node group also
for us with two nodes inside that with M four large.
And then it is going to apply directly
the production grade cluster creation automatically
without our involvement.
So what happens at that point is
like we are going to get a cluster
without any knowledge of what it is creating.
So that's the reason what I've done is
like I have created a specific step
for node groups separately.
So as we've seen earlier how EKS works.
So we are going to create cluster which is nothing
but control plane separately
and also the node groups separately.
So instead of
by using the default things and then using default
we customize it to see in a way how we need it.
So that's the reason I said that without node group.
So let's go ahead
and then execute this command on our command line, right?
So it is going to take close to 15
20 minutes to create this cluster.
So I'm going to pause the video and
once it is created so we can move on with the next steps.
So if you see here in this, so it has selected the subnets
for US east one A public
and then one more.
It is again another public subnet it has selected
and it is using the Kubernetes version 1.16.
As on today that is the latest as per EKS.
So it means like even the 1.18 is real latest
as Kubernetes.io.
So it'll be two versions lesser
than EKS is using two versions lesser
than the live Kubernetes.
So, and another thing is it is creating the cluster
in US east one with the name EKS demo one.
And one more thing here is
like you can see public access proof
for our API server in point and private access is false.
So this is nothing but if you remember we discuss it
about our API server endpoint should be accessible
for the worker nodes.
So it is going to means
like our Kube API server endpoint is going to
be publicly accessible for us.
That's the reason it is saying public access,
true.
So that's about it.
So it is going to create a control plane now
and I'll pause the video until it is created and then ready.
So our cluster got created now and we can see it also
updated the Kube config file in my dot Kube folder
in my home user home directory.
So, which is nothing but it also updated the cluster
Kube config file.
So which means like my Kube CTL context is directly pointed
to this cluster.
So we can even directly check Kube ctl, get nodes and see
if we have any nodes in this cluster.
So without any node group, we have created it.
Ideally no node should be present here.
So in our next upcoming step anyway
we are going to create the node group separately.
So no resources found in our default name space.
So now moving on.
So let's go ahead and then list our clusters.
So eksctl get clusters.
So it'll list the clusters created for us
in our AWS account in US East one North Virginia region.
So let's see how many clusters it has created.
Ideally we have created only EKS demo one.
It need to list the EKS demo.
So we can see it here.
EKS demo one created in the US East one region.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Now next lecture will focus on IAM OIDC provider.
Until then, bye bye.